# star2026
A folder to organize all of our files throughout the 2026 STAR program

1) initialCA: all of the initial files and scripts for the CA, copied over from the bls directory mentioned in the implementation directions pdf. They contain the configuration files for the CA, implementation of the CA in go, and the driver programs to run the CA in python 2. You can also get these files from tux yourself and copy them over into your directory straight in the terminal (see point A, B)

2) python3Translations: all of the driver programs from the initial CA files translated into python 3, along with all of the tools we needed for the translation. They can be run in your tux terminal. (see point B)

3) filesForDesktop: the files related to running the CA on your local computer. These include the CA itself, along with the different configurations that can be used to structure its behavior. These should be kept on your desktop because our current code that uses them tells the coputer to look for them specifically on the desktop.

A) getting initial files on tux: if you want to access the original CA files, they can be copied over from the bls directory using the instructions in the file describing the setup: The cybernetic automaton model has been reimplemented in Go and is currently available on tux. The directory: /home/bls96/ca has the source code, configurations, and driver scripts for most of the examples described in the dissertation on the subject. In addition to that directory, there’s a copy of the executable in the /home/bls96/bin directory.

B) running the files in tux: if you want to run any of the initialCA python 2 driver programs, you run the driver with ./ and pass it the configuration file that you want to use as a commanf line argument, so the command is in the format: ./pythonFile.py configurationFile.cfg and it will give you the output and error of the python program as it runs a CA experiment with a CA behaving according to the behavior specified in its configuration file. For any the skinner.py driver use skinner.cfg, for all others use basic.cfg. If you want to run any of the python3translations programs, you use the command in the format: python3 pythonFile.py configurationFile.cfg and it will give you the appropriate output. You can also graph the outputs of these programs, run either the python 2 or python 3 command and then put the output into another file with > outputFile.out for example: python3 d1.py > d1.out which will create an output file in your directory. Then run the command: gnuplot -e "set terminal dumb; plot 'outputFile.out' with lines" and it will generate a pictore of the graph for that run with ascii characters.
